docs: Make contributing docs more beginner-oriented (#1132)
snowpackjs/astro: CONTRIBUTING.md

- **Job opportunities:** Having the line "maintains code used by millions of developers" on my resume was an incredible way to stand out in every single job search I did for years afterwards.
- **Instant dev cred:** I was accepted to give my first public talk at a conference based solely on my open source work. It was a terrible talk, but whose first talk is good!? :D
- **Leadership/mentorship opportunities:** I went from having zero responsibility at work to being a respected voice/opinion in the `request` GitHub issues and PRs.
- **Learning from smart people:** I got to meet and learn from so many smart people across the open source ecosystem.
- **preventing imposter syndrome:** Sure, I was still just a kid, but having an actual human connection to developers who I looked up to at the time helped dispell the idea that "oh, _I_ could never be like that."
- **Making friends in the larger community:** The creator of request, [@mikeal](https://twitter.com/mikeal), is still a friend to this day.

> If any of this sounds interesting, I hope you consider getting involved with Astro. Come say hi in the [**#new-contributors**][discord] channel on Discord anytime. We're always around and value contributions of any shape/size.

Reviewer: conversation in #1120 led to the removal of this for now. Will probably re-post the meat of this to a personal blog and then add back a pointer to that blog.

In that case, I'd recommend removing these changes to prevent merge conflicts later.

# Contributor Manual

## Prerequisite

You’ll need the following tools set up on your system to contribute to this codebase:

- [Node 14.x or 16.x][install-node]
- [Yarn 1.x][install-yarn] (_Note: we do NOT use Yarn 2!_)
- [Git 2.x][install-git]

## Setting up Astro locally

> All work on Astro begins by downloading a copy locally. Start by [**forking**][how-to-fork] this repository (if you’re new to this, [GitHub has a great detailed guide][how-to-fork]). You should end up with an `astro/` code folder on your local machine.

Reviewer: "`astro/` code folder" sounds like some special thing, rephrase to "cloned `astro/` folder"?

> Switch to this folder by opening your **Terminal application** of choice and running:

Reviewer: wouldn't the user already have their terminal open to clone the repo? This confused me a bit, so maybe add a (if you haven't opened it already).

Author: Not necessarily; many users will use the GitHub Desktop client or some other assistive software to do so.

Reviewer: I'm +1 for anything that accounts for both types of users

```

> cd /[path to my code folder]/astro

Reviewer: is this confusing for people who did use the Terminal to clone, in which case it's `cd astro` instead of `cd /.../astro`? Confused me a little bit

```

> Next, you’ll need to install dependencies and set up the project. You can do that by running the following commands from within the `astro/` folder:

Reviewer: Looks like all references have been removed so many a non-issue, but I liked the idea of defining "top-level project root" as a concept / term here so that we could use it later in the document.

"`astro/` folder" is confusing since it could also refer to the `astro/` folder inside of `packages/`.

```
yarn
yarn build
```

This will download everything you need and build Astro locally for use. You’re ready to go!

## Development

> While working within packages (such as `packages/astro/*`), you may notice you have to run `yarn build` to see your changes. This process can really slow you down if you are trying many changes at once. Try running the following instead:

Reviewer: `you may notice you have to` feels like its contradicted by the rest of this. How about:

```suggestion
Running `yarn build` after every change can really slow you down, especially when you are making many changes at once. During development, try running the following command instead:
```

```
yarn dev
```

This will start a build watcher, which will rebuild files as you work. Use this to speed up your workflow, and see your changes more rapidly.

> Of course, you can still build all files within a package, as before. You may need to do so from time to time:

Reviewer: Q: when might I need to do so?

```
yarn build
```

## Running tests

You’ll need to run existing tests to make sure your work didn’t cause any regressions. To create a fresh build and run all tests, run the following from the project root:

```

> yarn

Reviewer: nit: `yarn` only needs to be run once, and `yarn build` isn't needed when `yarn dev` is already running. Is there a way to communicate this so that users aren't running 3 commands every time they test?

Author: > `yarn build` isn't needed when `yarn dev` is already running. 

There’s actually a lot of cases where this isn’t true. 2 main scenarios are if files were created, deleted, or renamed, `yarn build` needs to be run. Also, there’s a bug in our dev scripts where some post-build actions are skipped, resulting in errors (e.g. the `postbuild` script in `astro-markdown`). For beginners, I think this is confusing, so I just recommend running a fresh (correct) build before running tests.

Reviewer: Totally agreed if its been a while, but my fear is that the docs seem to suggest this flow:

- make a change
- run `yarn`
- run `yarn build`
- run `yarn test`
- make another change
- run `yarn`
- run `yarn build`
- etc. etc.

Can you communicate what you want to communicate, in a way that just makes it really clear that `yarn` and `yarn build` aren't needed every time?

Author: Perhaps I’ll just add a section outlining all the scripts separately and reference back to them.

yarn build
yarn test
```

If you find yourself wanting to not run the whole test suite, you can run the following instead:

```
cd packages/astro

> yarn test astro-markdown

Reviewer: this actually works from the top level! you can remove `cd packages/astro`.

Reviewer: also personal preference, but I feel like the existing snippet communicated the same info more clearly. Just a thought in case you're feeling the same!

Author: I’ll double-check; this used to not work from the top level

Author: Ah this was fixed! OK will revert the original.

```

Replace “`astro-markdown`“ with any part of a test filename to only run those tests.

> ## Making a Pull Request

Reviewer: some questions:

1. Most developers can't push directly to `origin`, so this needs to be updated to describe how Git/Github forks work.
2. Asking more broadly: Can we link to some good GitHub docs on this topic instead? I feel like this is a bit out of scope for our contributor docs.
3. Asking even more broadly: Are we able to take on contributions from people who aren't familiar with how GitHub works? I think the answer is yes, but I just want to be sure.

my 2 cents: I actually like that a developer doesn't currently need to worry about changesets until _after_ they have already submitted the PR and get the warning from the bot. It reduces the time to "I did it! success!" The changeset work becomes its own small followup task, with no impact on the already steep learning curve. Bonus: the bot documents how to do it, maintains that documentation, etc. so that we don't have to.

The other comments are more nits and personal preference, but this one I do feel a bit more strongly about.

Author: Didn’t the document above link to a guide on forking and start from the standpoint of them working from their own fork?

Reviewer: oh right, `origin` in this case is their fork and not ours. nvm then on num 1! The rest of the comments/questions still stand.

When you’re ready to commit your work and submit it for review, you’ll need to do the following:

1. Create a new **branch**:
   ```
   git checkout -b fix-homepage-bug
   ```
1. **Commit** your changes:
   ```
   git add *
   git commit -m "Fix layout bug on homepage"
   ```
   _Note: be short and specific in your message! This will live forever!_
1. **Push** your changes:
   ```
   git push --set-upstream origin fix-homepage-bug
   ```
1. Add a **changeset** message:

   ```
   yarn changeset
   ```

   Your changeset message will be what appears publicly in release notes. It’s all right if it’s more verbose than your commit message.

   Also, while Astro is pre-1.0, you probably want to only make **patch** changes, unless you’re releasing a huge, sweeping, breaking change as a **minor** release ([what is semver?][semver]).

1. [Open a new Pull Request][astro-pr] on Astro with your changes.

Be sure to **fill in the template** completely! It helps other people review your work.

If you need to create a pull request to get early feedback, that’s OK, too.

> Creating your first Pull Request can seem like a lot of steps at first, but with time and practice it’ll become comfortable.

Reviewer: fyi this is what made me think of the "my 2 cents" comment above. If we reduced this section to just: "Here's a great GitHub-written and reviewed guide on how to submit your first Pull Request" I think we would get more contributions and a lot fewer "hey, I did X from the docs and it didn't work" support requests.
